(upbeat music)
All right let's do the first one,
which is strings,
I want you to create a new file
and just call it 'types.html'.
And we're going to use our base, html base in there.
And I'm going to give ourselves a script source,
which will go to types.js.
The I'll go ahead and make another file in the
playground called 'types.js'.
And in here, we will just console.log it works.
Open that up in your browser.
Open up our thing, and there we go, it works.
Okay, so, strings, what are they?
They're used for holding text.
There are three different ways to
create strings in JavaScript.
There's single quotes, double quotes and back ticks.
So let's make a const name is equal to wes.
Const middle is equal to topher, we'll do double.
And const last is equal to, back ticks, bos.
Before you even hit save here,
this actually might just be fixed for me.
Let's give it a save.
You see that, that immediately just changed itself to
a single quote.
The way that we can fix that because,
we actually want to try single and double quotes.
Is you go to your first line of there
and you give yourselves a comment,
and this is different than the other kind of comment,
which I've been showing you,
which is just two forward slashes.
That will comment out the entire line,
or you can put a comment at the end of the line.
But a star forward slash will open up
what's called a block comment.
And then you can just close your block comment
whenever you wish to close it.
So this will go from multiple lines,
in our case we just want it on one line.
But ESLint is looking for a block comment.
So, we'll just type eslint-disabled,
and give that a save.
And...
Maybe it's just disable?
There we go.
So it's eslint-disable and that will just disable
the entire file, you can also just Eslint-disable line,
and that will disable one line.
And now, if I go back and give myself double quotes.
It's not actually going to go ahead and fix it for me.
Single and double quotes and then we have back ticks.
What's the difference?
For my prettier settings I generally stick with
either back ticks or single quotes.
And I have prettier currently set up to
correct myself to single quotes.
Although, I have been sort of contemplating myself
just switching to back ticks entirely.
And I'll talk about why in just a second.
Single quotes and double quotes are exactly the same thing.
The only reason we sort of have both
is because if you are having a sentence,
const sentence and you wanted to say,
in single quotes, she's so cool.
You see what just happened there?
I broke my JavaScript, why?
Because I opened my string I typed 'she's',
and then I needed an apostrophe for apostrophe 's',
but the JavaScript interpreter took that as
me closing the string and now it's going to,
watch this, 'Unexpected identifier on line 6'.
And then you see that if you hover over top of it,
it starts underlining it right away at the 's', right?
So it's just like, "Whoa! What's this 's' from?", right?
If I put a semicolon there I think it might have
even told us, no it gives us the same error.
What can we do in that case?
There's a couple options here.
First, you can do what's called escaping.
And escaping in JavaScript allows you to tell JavaScript,
no, I actually want this character.
Don't take this as JavaScript syntax take it as text,
and escaping is just a forward slash.
So you see that, that is a sort of pink in my editor,
your editor might be different depending on what you have.
And then we no longer have an issue,
and if I were to pull up that sentence.
You see, that is "she's so cool",
that forward slash is actually not in there.
That's how you can sort of escape a character that you want.
Kind of annoying in my opinion,
because you have to remember to type them.
And then also, if you want a forward slash,
what if you wanted a forward slash in your code.
Now it's broken you have to escape the forward slash
with another escape value and then it works.
I don't know how many, what if you do two?
Then it's broken, what if you do four?
Then you get two?
There you go.
You kind of get the point.
Obviously, the other better option there
is just to use the other type of quote that you have there.
So instead of using single quotes just use double quotes
and then you don't have to worry about that.
And, that's great.
The other sort of bummer there is if you also
needed double quotes in there.
So if you want to do air quotes she's so "cool",
and you were to put quotes around this cool here,
then we have the same problem where
we just broke our string.
So you'd have to escape the one that you want,
and then also escape that one.
And, I think that should work for us, there we go.
So that's part of the actual string.
Those are the, sort of the two differences between those.
Sort of the third option is the back ticks
which is just sort of gets away from all of that.
So, we can just make a sentence two here,
and then use back ticks
and that will just work
without having to escape.
The only sort of downside is if you did really
yant a back tick inside of your string,
You would have to escape that just like we did with the
single and double quotes that we have there.
So, that's single, double and back ticks.
They are all the same kind of string.
That's one sort of benefit that you have
to using back ticks there.
The next thing is putting strings on multiple lines.
So if I have like a song and I want to set that
to let's use single quotes here.
And we'll say 'Ohh yeah I like pizza'.
So like, that's one string, right?
I opened it right here and I closed it right there.
You already see that this is being underlined,
because there's a problem with it.
And if I refresh this we get an unexpected token on line 9,
because it expected us to actually go ahead and close that.
How do you do multi-line strings?
Well, you probably don't even put any room in
your brain for this because you won't
need it all that often but if you want to have a new line,
you have to put a forward slash, forward slash,
forward slash, at the end of every single line.
And that will allow you to put a string on multiple lines.
And then if you were to look at the string.
It's still just on one single line.
As I say, this is no way to live your life,
having to put these things in here.
The benefit to using back ticks is that you can
have multi-line strings
and they actually maintain all
of the line breaks that we have inside of them.
So it's actually not necessary to do any of that.
Going to refresh here, take a look.
There's our song.
You'll see, like when I type it,
it will preview it with these little return characters.
That means new line in JavaScript,
and then we actually look at it.
That's going to be extremely helpful for when we want
to make html.
Let's say we have a, build a new one,
so const html is equal to back ticks,
and then inside of that we want like a div.
And then inside of that maybe you want an h2.
Previously, with single and double quotes we had
to do all of that weird like new line stuff.
Or we had to use what is called concatenation,
which let's take a look at that right now.
So, this is sort of, I guess the third benefit
to using back ticks here.
And it's called interpolation and concatenation.
So, let's go through those words real quick.
A concatenation is when two or more strings
are combined into one.
And the word interpolation is when you
put a variable inside of a string.
Let's make a new variable called,
we already have a variable called name.
And let's make a,
hello sentence and if we want to say,
"Hello, my name is", and then we want
to say "nice to meet you".
So, if I want to put my name right in the middle right here.
Previously, with the double and single quotes,
what you have to do is you actually have to
close the quote so you close the string.
You put a plus in there, which is concatenation.
Then you put your variable, then you put another plus,
and then you continue on with opening
your other quote there.
What we did here is we took one string,
and then we added a second string here.
And then we had to do the concatenation in here.
And if we, say, took a look at hello,
and, you see I already goofed that up.
My name is 'iswes', Right?
Now I have to put a space there.
Okay, so, that's how it works
and it also works for single quotes as well.
You can mix and match them if you like.
There's no difference between single and double quotes.
JavaScript doesn't remember what type of quotes you've used.
You might be seeing like
'Oh, like these are, these are double quotes here
'and I made it with single quotes.'
No, a string is a string in JavaScript,
it doesn't remember what type of quotes you used
to make that string.
So, that's what is referred to as concatenation.
And this is sort of how you do interpolation,
meaning this is how you put a variable
in the middle of a string.
And, it's kind of annoying.
Another way that people would do it is
you might say something like, let hello2 is equal
to 'hello my name is', space
and then you would do hello2 is equal to hello2 plus name.
And then you would do it again, hello2 is equal to hello2,
plus space 'Nice to meet you'.
And that's just annoying because essentially,
what we're doing is we're just
overwriting the variable every single line.
So, we're initially creating a variable,
and then we overwrite the variable value
to whatever it was previously plus the new variable,
and let's take a look and see if it actually worked, hello2.
There we go it works but again it's no way
to live your life.
It's awful to work with it.
And also this plus here,
plus is generally used for numbers as we're going
to learn about.
If you use a plus with a string,
it works in concatenation.
So, the plus kind of does two things in JavaScript,
it does numbers, so, one plus one.
But then it also does if I do one plus one I get eleven.
Because I'm adding that or if I do one plus
a string plus a number then I get eleven,
and if I do a number plus a string I also get eleven.
That's ripe for bugs and I hate doing that.
That's where back ticks come in, much nicer.
Let's just comment all this out here.
And we'll just say const hello,
and then we'll use back ticks say 'hello my name is period,
Nice to meet you' and then if you want to interpolate,
if you want to put a variable inside of a string,
you use this syntax dollar sign, curly brackets,
and then you can just put your variable inside of there.
And this syntax here can only ever be used in back ticks,
and that's sort of one of the benefits for always going
with back ticks is that if you ever want
to pop a variable inside of a string you just go ahead,
and use that.
Now if we take a look at hello we see,
it's working very nicely.
Actually almost anything can go inside of these things
as we're going to be learning,
you... maybe can be doing some math.
So, I am...
One plus 100 years old and JavaScript will sort of like,
run whatever it is inside of this.
We're going to learn about bedmass in the future
but just as sort of a look ahead it will run
whatever is inside of that.
Whether it's a variable, or an actual statement,
and then it will return the value as inside of it see.
I am 101 years old, huge benefit to that.
Again, you can do multiple lines with back ticks.
You can do variable interpolation with back ticks.
And then there's even something a little bit more advanced
that's called a tagged template literal.
Which we're not going to look at because we are
not getting into functions just yet.
Finally, this will be really helpful
for creating html, so if I say Const html...
is equal to then we'll do back ticks.
Then inside of that I'll have like a div,
And inside of that I'll have an h2.
And I'll put the person's name,
and then inside of that maybe I'll just put the hello,
maybe inside of a paragraph tag.
And then, I've got all of this html that I've made,
and we'll talk a lot more about creating html.
But, you see that I've just created a string that is html
and we can actually take that,
and dump it into we can say something like
document.body.innerHTML is equal to html.
Again, we're going to go much more into this in the future
as well as some possible security things
that may be happening here.
Don't just start go building a website just yet with this.
But, you see, there we go.
I've just made some html and if I inspect it
you'll see it's a regular, there's our div,
There's our h2 and there's our paragraph tag
that I dumped into it.
So, that is strings, let's jump into numbers.